Fear and war were normal in my home country.
I had many questions:
Why do young people have to die?
Why do my children have to go through this?
God did not create us to make war.
The priests in my church always said,
“It is God’s will.”
Being on the run was dreadful.
More than once,
I thought we were going to die.
Eventually, we arrived in Germany,
and I was convinced that the priests there
could give me some answers.
I went to several different churches
—but no answers.
I kept telling them:
“I’m looking for something.
I don’t know what it is,
but I didn’t find it here with you.”
Sometimes I thought
I was searching for something
that no one could give me.
One day,
a German woman approached me,
speaking in Arabic.
That was amazing for me.
I never had a good opinion
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I didn’t think
I could learn anything from her,
but I gave her a chance.
She gave me logical answers
to all of my questions.
In my home country, there are
multiple religious groups and nationalities
who hate and fight each other.
But at the meetings of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
I have seen that all people
can live in peace with each other
if they get to know our Father in heaven.
He gives love and peace.
At last, I found what I had been looking for.
I lived a life without rules.
I used to get drunk,
I smoked a lot,
and I became a compulsive gambler.
My behavior was a complete disaster.
My wife wanted to separate from me.
It was a horrible time.
My wife started studying the Bible
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I remember being doubtful
—very doubtful.
But there was one thing
that started to make me think.
Both my wife and my children
looked more peaceful,
more joyful, happier.
That’s why I even accepted a Bible study.
I came to realize that Jehovah
loves each one of us as an individual.
That gave me real hope for the future.
Everything I was studying in the Bible
helped me to understand
that doing Jehovah’s will
is in our best interests.
This really helped me to quit my bad habits,
treat my family better,
and show due respect to my wife.
If Jehovah hadn’t searched for me,
if I hadn’t come to know him,
we would no longer be a family.
Today we are, indeed, a happy family,
a united family
—united more than ever.
Only Jehovah could perform such a miracle.